---
title: 'Stagestruck (I, 2) [Analysis]'
subtitle: 'Analyze the means Shakespeare uses to characterize the workman'
author: Niklas von Hirschfeld
date: 2024-09-07
toc: false
bib: false
chapter: false
publish: false
environments: []
---

# Notes

::: leftbar
**Task:**

Analyze the means Shakespeare uses to characterize the workmen, or
"Mechanicals". Illustrate your findings by giving examples of their vocabulary
and manner of speaking.
:::

**Notes:**

- No meter in this scene - Flute: "Here, Peter Quince" - No iambic pentameter
- Easier Language - Simpler Vocab (l. 63, "That would hang us, every mother's son")
- Short sentences, in comparison to Scene. 1, makes it easier to understand
- "good Peter Quince,"

::: inmargin
**Jovial:** spielerisch
:::

- "Is all our *company* here?" (Sentence 1.) - Multiple meanings - (*homolyte*,) *pun*, *play on words*
    - Sind alle companions da?
    - Sind alle Mitarbeitenden da?
    - Sind alle Soldaten da?

::: example
**Structure tip:**

- Einleitung: Vorstellung der Absicht des Autor und / oder these zur Aufgabenstellung
- Sonst ähnlich, wie bei summary, nur ohne Inhalt.
- Shakespeare stellt die workmans einfach dar, dies wird durch die sprach etc verdeutlicht.
:::

\page

# Analysis

##### Introduction

In the Act One, scene 2 of the play "A Midsummer night's Dream", by Shakespeare
and published in 1595, characterize the "Mechanicals" as simple man through
the manner of speaking.

---

##### The Meter

The first thing that points out is the use of the meter. Although Shakespeare
uses the iambic pentameter consistently in the first scene, it is completely
missing out in the second one. The iambic pentameter elevates the language and
wording, and so characterizes a more thoughtful use of language. A regular
meter can portray a relaxed setting, an irregular meter could be used to
characterize a more exited figure. The missing out of a meter at all portrays
some one more simple, as they are *not paying attention* to their language as
much. All those figures used a complex meter, the iambic pentameter, before.
Shakespeare uses that to draw attention to their amateurish nature, when it
comes to acting.

##### Paratactic syntax

The paratactic syntax, the short sentences, is another aspect of more simple
language. Short sentences can be interpreted in many different ways. In general
such language is used by some one how is not focussing on their speaking, this
could be the case for someone who is exited, not interested in a topic, with
their thoughts somewhere else or some one more "simple", not focussing on their
wording in general. 

##### "Company"

Right in the beginning of Scene 2, Quince asks if "is all our company here?"
(l. ...). At its most straightforward, "company" refers to the group of
tradesmen and workmen who have gathered to rehearse their play. The message is
simple: is the entire group present? However, Shakespeare's choice of the word
"company" leaves room for richer interpretations.

"company" can also be understood as fellowship or companionship, evoking a
sense of camaraderie among the group. This interpretation focuses on the social
and collective aspect of their meeting. They are not just the actors but
companions united by a common purpose.

Additionally, the term "company" refers to a professional collective, pointing
out their trades- and workmen identity. In this time it could also be used to
describe guilds or associations of craftsmen. While this is not as
straightforward, it underlines their everyday occupations, adding a contrast
between their profession and effort as actors. 

Finally, there is an theatrical layer to the word. "Company" can denote a
troupe of actors, drawing attention to the play-within-a-play structure. By
using the word "company", Quince elevates them to the status of professional
performers, which, same as before, creates a humorous contrast to there actual
profession. This usage blurs the lines between their "real life" and the roles
they take on for the performance within the play.

This play on word by Shakespeare points out the different layer and meaning of
this gathering. It opens multiple perspectives allowing for a dynamic
interpretation. Shakespeare uses the ambiguity of the to highlight the group's
multifaceted identity - as actors, companions, workers and participants in a
broader theatrical experience. 

---

##### Conclusion

In conclusion, Shakespeare uses various linguistic and structural techniques to
highlight the "Mechanicals" humble nature, particularly through
their speech patterns. The absence of a meter as well as the paratactic syntax,
points out their lack of sophistication and attention. This also frames the
entire scene, reinforcing the play-within-a-play structure. 
